Okay, so let's go ahead and practice
using the Parameter Store.
So the best way to do it is
to type Parameter Store in the search bar,
and you can click here.
It's a Systems Manager feature.
So if you click on Parameter Store, on the left hand side,
you will see that under Systems Manager,
you have, under Application Tools, the Parameter Store,
and what we can do here is create a new parameter.
We specify types and values,
and then we can reference the parameters
in the comments or the code.
So let's go ahead and practice using this service.
So I first create a parameter
and I need to enter a name for it.
So the name is whatever you want.
You don't have to follow my direction,
but I like to name it like this
so /my-app/dev/db-url,
and this is going to allow me, with these four slashes
to organize them into a hierarchy.
So this is my app, this is the Dev Environment,
and this is the name of my parameter
within the Dev Environment.
So here, I say DB Url for the Dev Environment.
That's perfect, and then Tier, we have two options.
We have Standard and Advanced.
So we are going to use a Standard tier.
We can store up to 10,000 standard parameters.
They are four kilobytes in value maximum,
and we can't share that with other accounts,
but the Advanced parameters, you can have 100,000 of them,
they can be eight kilobytes
and you can share them with your other accounts.
So next we're going to choose the type,
and the type could be String, StringList, or SecureString.
So here we're going to use String,
but later we'll be using SecureString,
and if you need to list of string,
you can have a StringList, but String here has Data Type.
It's either text or AWS EC2 image
because you can also reference image ARNs here,
and here you just have to specify the
text in a specific format.
But we'll use Text, and for the string, I will have
for example, dev.database.stephantheteacher.com.
This is just an example.
You don't have to put anything that's a URL.
You can put whatever you want in it,
but that's going to be the value of my parameter, this one.
So let's create this parameter,
and as you can see now it's been created.
I can click on it and have a look at it.
So this is Version One of this parameter.
We can view the version history here.
So if I were to change it, then I can of course update it,
but I will have access to my version history, which is nice,
and then we're going to do the same but add more parameters,
so we're going to go under Parameter Store
and I'm going to copy this,
and here I'm going to have it as db-password,
so we're going to create it.
So DB Password for Dev,
and as you guessed it,
we're going to have a SecureString this time,
and because it's a password, we're going to encrypt it
with a KMS key,
so it could belong in my account or another account.
We'll use my account.
You could use the default KMS Key ID
managed by AWS for the SSM service,
which is this one, alias/aws/ssm,
or you can select one that you have created before.
For example, you may have created, for example, KMS,
a key called Tutorial or whatever you want to create it.
You don't have to, and so if you had created it,
then you can use it here and leverage it.
It's really as you want,
but let's choose Tutorial for this example,
it doesn't really matter,
and we need to put a password,
so I'll have it as devpassword,
and now this is going to be automatically encrypted by KMS.
So let's create this parameter.
As you can see now, the type is a SecureString,
and if I click on it, as you can see,
the value is encrypted and hidden,
and if I click on show decrypted value,
it will check that I have the KMS permission to use the key
and then therefore decrypt the value for me,
so that's great.
What we can do now is just really quickly
create the other parameters for Prod.
So instead of here, I have Prod and I'll call it
prod.stephantheteacher.com3306,
and then for the password, same.
I'm going to copy this real quick and have it as prod.
We'll use a SecureString, we'll use the Tutorial one,
and then we'll have it as prodpassword.
Okay, so now we have four parameters
and they're all available within the Parameter Store
and they're ordered by a hierarchy.
So now let's try to access these parameters using the CLI.
So I'm going to open a CloudShell on the top
because it has the CLI installed of AWS
and it's already configured.
And so what we're going to use is a command
called the SSM Get Parameters.
So we'll do aws ssm get-parameters,
and then you have to provide names,
and the names correspond to the names of your parameters.
So I can have, for example, my dev/db-url
as well as my dev password, db-password.
So we'll press Enter, and as you can see, now I get a result
with my two parameters.
So we have this one and that one,
and you can see that for the db-url, it's a String,
the value has been returned as is,
but for the db-password, it's a SecureString
and it has been returned as an encrypted value.
So to decrypt this value, I'll press Enter, Enter, Enter,
and quit, q.
I have to specify a flag,
and the flag is called with-decryption,
and so it's going to check additionally if I have the KMS
security policy allowed on my account
to decrypt that parameter.
So as you can see now, the db-password
is still a SecureString, but now we have devpassword
as a decrypted value thanks to this flag with decryption.
So the CLA is very powerful
and something you can definitely use in your scripts.
Another command I would like to show you
is going to be the Get Parameters by Path.
So you do aws ssm get-parameters-by-path,
and then you have to specify a path,
and the path is whatever you want,
so because we have a hierarchy, we have my-app/dev,
it's going to give me all the parameters in this namespace,
and as you can see, we got again, the dev db-password
and the dev db-url.
But you can do something more now, you can do, for example,
my-app as a whole,
and as you can see, I get nothing,
but if I use the flag
and it's a flag called Recursion,
so it's going to be recursive,
then you have access to all the parameters recursively
under that namespace.
So we have access to the dev as well as the prod
type of parameters, which is brilliant,
so now we have our four parameters.
And finally, if you want it, of course,
you can also use with-decryption to decrypt all of them.
And that's it.
So we've seen how the Parameter Store was working,
we've seen about the hierarchy, we've seen the CLI,
and it starts to show you the power
of using the Parameter Store.
So I hope you liked it,
and I will see you in the next lecture.